Those grandchildren, what perception do you get from them of how they feel about A&M?
One of the changes made back in the 60s was also to become more selective in admission requirements.
Do you remember any discussions about whether or not that was good policy back in the 60's?
I thought it was excellent policy.
There was a good bit of discussion in the association.
If the standards had been that, when I got here, I wouldn't have got to go away anymore.
And there's some merit to that.
I think A&M's handled that very well.
We've upped the standards, we've tried to
open the door for those people who would really get with it.
The summer program and all.
The guy had this great deal of devotion.
He was a late bloomer.
They've been in unity now.
But it has up the standards, no question.
We have a higher academic rating than we have.
And also,
We're now, what, the fourth largest university in the country.
The fact is, I think, I read a newspaper this morning.
Texas is, they're number one.
Number one, Iowa State's second.
That would be in the paper this morning.
It's right, Arizona State is third, and then it's fourth.
Michigan State is fifth.
They're all in the 40,000s, in Texas, 48, 43 something.
And there was a realization I think on the part of everyone that growth might just overwhelm us.
That's one of my responses is if we were to have open admissions, where do we put everyone and are we doing anyone a favor
if we admit a student that we know is almost certain to flunk out.
more or less than the area we live now.
For many years, I thought the ideal role for him would be 35 to 45.
I'm on your side.
And I still believe that.
I do too.
I still think we carry 200 people in there.
And I think the University of Texas will carry 200 people in there.
I do too.
But here are state-supported schools, at least part of state-supported.
I think most people don't realize just how little state-supported they are now.
but as long as one of the flagships takes school, the enrollment will continue to be able to take this issue.
The curriculum, do you have any areas where you think A&M today
its success is greater as the public sees us, that we're better at this than we are with that.
As far as you know, which areas does A&M?
Well, I think we're generally considered best in the
and the engineering areas.
I think we're gaining promise in the business field.
And, uh, while liberal arts, in my opinion, is moving along with great strides, I don't think
a lot of people are not familiar with it, that it's recognized very well.
I think you're correct.
And there are other problems that are tied to, like the Sea Grant border, the geosciences, and all of those things that pretty well received.
A lot of that's perceived in the same way as the engineering whole law.
Let's see, do you, in looking back, can you think of any decisions that A&M did not make, but it now, we can see that maybe it should have made?
Well, one of the things I look back on, when we, when we let John talk about the system,
You mean Arlington?
I mean, I'm sorry, Arlington.
We let Arlington slip out of the system.
That, in my opinion, was a mistake.
Do you have any idea as to why that was done?
I wasn't involved in it personally.
I've been told that some of the results are just maybe personal ambushes, as far as speaking.
and in an effort to consolidate the funding and support that the legislation was given into Texas A.D.
University, which was probably a good decision from that standpoint.
But politically, I think it was a bad mistake for that art to get out of the system.
Frank Irwin was very happy with that, I think.
He must have danced with me.
Alright, can you think of any other omissions or commissions that we now might wish we could have rethought?
Really that would have always been personal in my mind when I think of something we should have done.
Obviously through the years, hindsight says sure, we didn't do too well here, but I don't think anything
Are there any administrators since Rudder and Williams that you would rate real highly?
Not going to ask the negative.
Bowen, what do you think are his strengths?
I think he's a play in the head guy.
I think he tries to move ahead, play in the head, and instead of having the problems, now he's got a position where instead of having to deal with putting out fires, he's able to move ahead on.
So many of other presidents, for one reason or another, spent all that time putting out brush fires.
instead of moving along, too busy.
But not brush marks.
You can't score any touchdowns if you're having to play defense.
That's right.
And we've played a lot of defense.
And there for a while, I think that we've played a lot of defense.
Always something happens.
These people are always ready to jump on it.
And I think that the fact that Dr. Moore had been
and has gone out there and sought the media and asked them to come and give and look at him and all of them standing behind the fences and say, don't let that media guy get in there because he's going to write a bad story about us.
I think the best thing to say about it is that great article that came out.
That writer admitted and said he wouldn't pay them.
I think he needs to write himself a nice patent, negative one.
He came away and wrote the best article to have been written.
Oh, yes.
That article was worth
an uncountable amount of money.
But that was largely due to Ray Bowen's open attitude and also his profession.
If you run into Bowen, tell him that last part because Jim Ashlock, who has that job,
under a contract that that contract is ending in next August and there's a decision to be made as to whether or not to go outside or to keep him.
So if you have any opinion, tell Bowen.
Well, my opinion is that I agree with you.
I agree with you.
Not very many brush fires.
And the ones up there have been put out real quick.
And of course, a lot of that credit belongs to Dr. Boyd himself, but some of it belongs to the next one.
All right, how did the Private Enterprise Research Center come into being?
Well, you may recall,
uh, during the 60s and early 70s, all the, uh, still liberal, still takeovers of universities, they were, uh, uh, really, uh, coming in and getting into areas where the, uh, all the universities were coming up with not the liberal ideas.
what really approach the socialistic type system that they're trying to install.
And there was just a dark places where good conservative thinking could either be expressed.
even in the academic field.
And a number of us felt that A&M was solid enough conservative that we would be the ones to go forward with some of these mandates in the legislature passed that private employers and that leadership
And a few things like that, we taught the schools.
And who's going to do it?
So the field grants help in the office department.
We were able to convince people that we set up the three-up class.
that it had the possibility of at least making plenty of funerals to let all the ideas be espoused in the university.
And with Bill's help, the Lord of the West Foundation,
And I formed a food association which made a horse.
The president at that time was very scared of funding because of the Board of Regents and they were very enthusiastic to back the formation of the time.
Now were you the lead horse in that caravan?
Some people say so, but we would know a lot of football.
All right, who were your key allies?
You mentioned Phil.
Yeah, Phil and Mary Compson and the association, Buck Graham, my name is Houston, pushing hard on it.
And we had the general backing of the former students association.
Because Phil was not yet in the Senate, he was in the House.
Oh, oh, okay.
He was here at the University.
Oh, okay.
He was an economics professor at the University.
Okay.
And then, through the friendships, the West Foundation, probably partially who was the foundation, the West Foundation, who had a great interest in this.
I still think we need to get them up there in some way.
Who's that?
Bill Lawyer.
Oh, yes.
And his wife, Martin Westbrook.
Very, very critical.
They might only support it if they got other people to support it.
In the early days, it was getting that support.
The Fasco Foundation came forward.
Now, who was the first executive director, I'll call it, or president, or...
The faculty, who was the first faculty leader of the private enterprise?
See, there were five, five teams.
Okay.
But who had the task then that Tom Savings has now?
Who started, who was the first?
The first didn't work.
I didn't look at the archives and see who it was.
Okay, well then who's the first one and where it worked?
Then we got Dr. Brown.
He was 85.
just a great guy.
So, you know, you don't look old.
And I can't think of his name.
And I'm embarrassed now, but we were great friends.
But he carried the thing beautifully.
got us involved with the Heritage Foundation and he was well thought of all through that area and did a marvelous job.
And then Tom, when he retired, Tom came on and Tom did a great job.
Now, I'm really proud of the President and President of the United States.
Most people don't realize it, but we have more input on what's going to happen
Social Security, Medicare, than almost any other foundation in the country.
We're peanuts, size-wise, and economic strength-wise, to Heritage and Kato and some of the others.
But we're in a leadership position right now.
And that comes to the back of how we got started.
Phil Graham's getting us up there.
and Tom and our staff and our people are coming up with good ideas to get some research.
We really need to expand effort.
We need to get more support into the private and private research center.
It has a lot more clients than you could ever expect an organization like that to have.
Do you have any advice on how to make that expansion?
I think about it a lot every week.
I think some of it's going to come about now because of the prestige we're getting.
We're already getting a lot more grants.
And the Foundation has always been, if I'm proud of the President, you say Sunday, always been very careful.
that anybody that gives us a grant has to sign up and say, here, we'll do this, we'll make this study, whatever it follows out, follows out.
We don't pay any control of what's coming out here.
And we lose a lot of grants.
A lot of grant people don't want to know, but they want to know what's going to come out before you do the study.
And I believe that everything that you have chaired, you have put yourself into with your energy and your resources.
I think that's been one of your marks very much to your credit.
Why have you been so devoted to A&M?
Oh, I suppose I don't know where to go.
I was a, you know, just a young man from a country town.
And I actually, a little bit on the Ruffin side, you know, I learned leadership.
is something that's an indefinable type thing that helps you all through your career, whether it's social or business.
Anything changed me.
At the final of the school, it didn't come to my school day again.
I budget on my sophomore year as to be able to think about it.
I like what A&M stood for.
Got involved, and the more we get involved, the better it goes.
And A&M, as you perceive today, A&M's values and attitudes, are they very different from what the values and attitudes were 50, 60 years ago?
Not a lot, basically.
We're still fine right down the road, and I'm very proud of that.
Alien ship, so to speak, has followed the course that hasn't deviated a lot.
That's what people are understanding, that you can depend on alien.
It's not going to be jumping over here one day and jumping over there the next day.
It's going to plow ahead and try to do a good job.
I like that.
That's good.
That's good imagery, that's good symbolism.
If we were today going to make a list of the events, the practices, in an A&M student's experience that build this feeling in their heart, what events, practices would you put on that list?
That's one of the most...
Difficult things are defined that I know of.
But it's largely not a morale factor, where there is a perception and reality that alien people support each other.
And if they deserve support.
I'll give a break to any anger that I think wants to do the right thing.
I get lots of calls from people who are just familiar with angership.
Sure.
I think I've got no medical, I can tell, I can smell it.
And I think most of the people like that, so there's very little, there's a business that's just a moving angership.
I think if somebody that's playing, they'll need some help, and they approach it right away, they need to get help from things.
If they're going to act the wrong way, they don't get it.
A lot of people think that they're just blind.
Blindly support each other.
That's not so.
They support each other if they prefer.
If we were to make a list of muster, and muster's important.
It gives an opportunity for everybody to get together.
Very important.
Probably muster's probably the most significant tradition we have.
A lot of mine is based on some stupid things.
One, I'll tell you, I'll tell you one of my biggest disciplines.
And I was on that program.
I had, previous year, been dealing with the head of the four-point company, the real state operation.
Took me to the University of Houston football.
And there's a tight, hard game.
Right in the middle of it, just like the Nebraska game.
Things were winning up there.
They had to just go out and play goodbye to Texas University.
That chaps my butt.
I agree with you.
That is the stupidest thing.
And when I was president, I got the student butt.
Got them all done.
And we decided we were going to quit that.
And we were going to sing the proper verse.
We published it in the football.
All the freshmen were singing.
Got to the game.
Band struck up.
Alumni drowned everybody out.
Oh, fool.
They buy the taxes.
Because I agree with you.
We ought to save that one for that one game.
Yeah.
Well, one thing, I don't like to recognize the bastards that much.
That's right.
It's stupid.
It's still stupid.
It is.
It's the one thing that's disappointing.
I thought I had got it done.
I've got to say the stupid buddy was perceptive enough that that was the only thing to do.
And we actually got it where they printed the words for the verse and it was a really new rhythm, you know, and urged everybody to do it.
Of course, the alumni came to the program, they didn't really read anything in the program.
The band started that when they just drowned out the stupid buddy in me.
That was disappointing because I thought that we finally got such enough to take care of that.
And I'll never believe that's the right thing to do.
The fact is I got so disgusted.
We were right there in the fourth quarter and Nebraska made that second touchdown.
We were trying to defend anything.
Damn if the band didn't strike up, goodbye to Texas University.
Man, we needed to be goodbye to Nebraska.
That's right.
And I thought, man, that's stupid.
And he turned to me and said,
I thought y'all were playing at the University of Houston then.
What's this good part of Texas business?
And I had to try to explain to him this.
He never did even come close to understanding it.
That's right.
All right, as you look at A&M today, what are the parts of A&M that you care most about?
The parts that are dearest to your heart.
Well, obviously it ought to be a student body.
The whole student body?
Yeah, it's an exceptional student body.
Would it matter if somebody came to you and asked you, would you help us with some students who are majoring in this or that or the other?
I don't think it'd make me into a great deal of damage.
Obviously, I'm a little prejudiced towards engineers.
Since I graduated from engineers and recently, as a Friday night, inducted into mechanical engineers.
Hey, that's great.
a group, I think, of 1% a year to take in.
I was very pleased with that Friday night.
But there's so many things done in the ag school and now in business.
I just like to just, the gentleman just went to the billows, we're going to play golf with me a little while.
And he just said, this last week, he said, I know you want to congratulate him.
He said, you know, it's always a pleasure to be in the area.
The students probably look so sharp.
He said, they go around, they look sharp, they dress indecent, and they all look like they didn't want to go down or something like that.
And so generally,
The student body is a reflection of the university that's doing the right thing.
And so, I'm proud of that bunch of students.
And they're a lot smarter than we were going to do one day.
Alright, let's see.
Can you remember any examples of good laughs?
Good, amusing, funny?
probably one of the most amusing things that I would participate in.
I was a regimented band of engineers for a senior year.
And some boilers I think in the field of Ontario.
sort of a clown like to do practical jokes.
And he had gotten these false teeth and just able to get himself where he looked like a complete maniac.
And over there they had
And some of them, they waited till people were in bed.
And then they let him in so they don't snap on the light.
He'd be there careful of them.
So, he got completely apart.
And so I thought that was so much fun that I brought him over in the corner of these years and I had to ask you to have a room, so I let him in there.
He would stand and the folks would stand out in my hallway and see what the results would be.
You'd have a thing from guys, I had never recovers, to bolt him and just come out of that bed and they shot him right past him out the door.
One friend of mine named Phil Pogs was studying me, a really good student, a great engineer.
And Phil was there and the guy, he thought it was his roommate or something, the guy put his hand on his neck and leg.
He looked up and saw him and goosebumps him.
He came right on that handrail.
He'll go out down the stairs.
But things like that will happen on that.
Practical jokes.
Alright, last question.
Over all these A&M years, if you could say thank you, put your arm around the shoulders of a few people that you remember with the greatest joy, who would they be?
Oh, Dr. Wade Greenwood, Buckley Armstrong, Randy Madison, Bob Walker.